README.md, before:

# Cmake build

This is an expansion of the original excellent work from:
https://github.com/davidsansome/python-cmake-buildsystem

## Quickstart

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. -G "Ninja"
    ninja

## Info

This is a replacement buildsystem for Python.  The existing (autotools based)
buildsystem for Python is overcomplicated and makes cross-compiling very
difficult.

This cmake-based buildsystem is better because:

  * It's much faster to compile: 7 seconds instead of 58 seconds in my
    unscientific test.
  * No compiled program for the target architecture is used in the build
    itself.  This makes cross-compiling possible.
  * Same project files for all platforms - there's no need to maintain the
    unix build separately from four different MSVC builds.

How to use this buildsystem:

  * Download and extract the Python 2.7.3 source.
  * Copy all the files in this repository into the Python source directory.
  * mkdir bin
  * cd bin
  * cmake ..
  * make -j10
  * sudo make install

CMake options:

  You can pass options to CMake to control the way Python is built.  You only
  need to give each option once - they get saved in CMakeCache.txt.  Pass
  options on the commandline with -DOPTION=VALUE, or use the "ccmake" gui.

    CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug|Release
      Build with debugging symbols or with optimisations.

    CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>   (defaults to /usr/local)
      Path in which to install Python.

    BUILD_SHARED=ON|OFF          (defaults to OFF)
    BUILD_STATIC=ON|OFF          (defaults to ON)
      Build libpython as a shared library (.so or .dll) or a static library
      (.a).  At least one of these options must be set to ON - if they are both
      set to ON then the Python executable will be linked against the shared
      version of libpython.

      Note that Python extensions are always built as shared libraries.  On
      Windows it is not possible to build shared .dll extensions against a
      static libpython, so you must build any extensions you want into libpython
      itself (see the BUILTIN flags below).

    ENABLE_<extension>=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
    BUILTIN_<extension>=ON|OFF    (defaults to OFF except for POSIX, PWD and
                                   NT extensions which are builtin by default)
      These two options control how individual python extensions are built.
      <extension> is the name of the extension in upper case, and without any
      leading underscore (_).  Known extensions for 2.7.1 include:

        ARRAY AUDIOOP BINASCII BISECT BSDDB BZ2 CMATH CODECS_CN CODECS_HK
        CODECS_ISO2022 CODECS_JP CODECS_KR CODECS_TW COLLECTIONS CPICKLE CRYPT
        CSTRINGIO CSV CTYPES CTYPES_TEST CURSES CURSES_PANEL DATETIME DBM
        ELEMENTTREE FCNTL FUNCTOOLS FUTURE_BUILTINS GDBM GRP HASHLIB HEAPQ
        HOTSHOT IO ITERTOOLS JSON LINUXAUDIODEV LOCALE LSPROF MATH MMAP
        MULTIBYTECODEC MULTIPROCESSING NIS NT OPERATOR OSSAUDIODEV PARSER POSIX
        PWD PYEXPAT RANDOM READLINE RESOURCE SELECT SOCKET SPWD SQLITE3 SSL
        STROP STRUCT SYSLOG TERMIOS TESTCAPI TIME TKINTER UNICODEDATA ZLIB

      All extensions are enabled by default, but some might depend on system
      libraries and will get disabled if they're not available (a list of
      extensions that didn't have all their prerequisites available will be
      printed when you run cmake).

      By default extensions are compiled as separate shared libraries (.so or
      .dll files) and installed in lib/python2.7/lib-dynload.  If you set
      BUILTIN_<extension> to ON then the extension is compiled into libpython
      instead.

    USE_LIB64=ON|OFF              (defaults to OFF)
      If this is set to ON then cmake will look for dependencies in lib64 as
      well as lib directories.  Compiled python extensions will also be
      installed into lib64/python2.7/lib-dynload instead of
      lib/python2.7/lib-dynload.

    EXTRA_PYTHONPATH=dir1:dir2    (defaults to "")
      Colon (:) separated list of extra directories to add to the compiled-in
      PYTHONPATH.

    USE_SYSTEM_LIBRARIES=ON|OFF   (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect system libraries will be done.
      Options documented below allow to enable/disable detection of particular
      libraries.

    USE_SYSTEM_Curses=ON|OFF      (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Curses libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: CURSES, CURSES_PANEL, READLINE
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: CURSES_LIBRARIES

    USE_SYSTEM_EXPAT=ON|OFF       (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Expat libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: ELEMENTTREE, PYEXPAT
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: EXPAT_LIBRARIES, EXPAT_INCLUDE_DIRS

    USE_SYSTEM_OpenSSL=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect OpenSSL libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: HASHLIB, SSL, MD5, SHA, SHA256, SHA512
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES
      If [OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES] are found, extensions [HASHLIB, SSL] will be built
      If [OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES] are NOT found, extensions [SHA, SHA256, SHA512] will be built

    USE_SYSTEM_TCL=ON|OFF         (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Tcl libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: TKINTER
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: TCL_LIBRARY, TK_LIBRARY, TCL_INCLUDE_PATH, TK_INCLUDE_PATH

    USE_SYSTEM_ZLIB=ON|OFF        (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect ZLIB libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: BINASCII, ZLIB
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: ZLIB_LIBRARY, ZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR, ZLIB_ROOT
      ZLIB_ROOT should be set only if USE_SYSTEM_ZLIB is ON
      If [ZLIB_LIBRARY, ZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR] are found, extensions [BINASCII] will be built with ZLIB_CRC32

    USE_SYSTEM_DB=ON|OFF          (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect DB libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: BSDDB
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: DB_INCLUDE_PATH, DB_LIBRARIES

    USE_SYSTEM_GDBM=ON|OFF        (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect GDBM libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: DBM, GDBM
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: GDBM_INCLUDE_PATH, GDBM_LIBRARY, GDBM_COMPAT_LIBRARY

    USE_SYSTEM_READLINE=ON|OFF    (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Readline libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: READLINE
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: READLINE_INCLUDE_PATH, READLINE_LIBRARY

    USE_SYSTEM_SQLITE3=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect SQLITE3 libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: SQLITE3
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: SQLITE3_INCLUDE_PATH, SQLITE3_LIBRARY

Cross-compiling for Windows from Linux:

  There are some patches in the cmake/patches-win32 directory that make it
  possible to compile Python using the mingw32 compiler.  You have to apply
  these before running make:

    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/01-dynload_win.patch
    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/02-signalmodule.patch
    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/03-mingw32.patch

Commit message:

Updated example to be more awesome

README.md, after:

# Cmake build

This is an expansion of the original excellent work from:
https://github.com/davidsansome/python-cmake-buildsystem

## Quickstart

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake .. -G "Ninja"
    ninja

## Demo

A trivial example of embedding python and invoking a c callback
is given in main.c; too see it in active build, and then run:

    demo
    import yyy
    yyy.xxx()

## Info

This is a replacement buildsystem for Python.  The existing (autotools based)
buildsystem for Python is overcomplicated and makes cross-compiling very
difficult.

This cmake-based buildsystem is better because:

  * It's much faster to compile: 7 seconds instead of 58 seconds in my
    unscientific test.
  * No compiled program for the target architecture is used in the build
    itself.  This makes cross-compiling possible.
  * Same project files for all platforms - there's no need to maintain the
    unix build separately from four different MSVC builds.

How to use this buildsystem:

  * Download and extract the Python 2.7.3 source.
  * Copy all the files in this repository into the Python source directory.
  * mkdir bin
  * cd bin
  * cmake ..
  * make -j10
  * sudo make install

CMake options:

  You can pass options to CMake to control the way Python is built.  You only
  need to give each option once - they get saved in CMakeCache.txt.  Pass
  options on the commandline with -DOPTION=VALUE, or use the "ccmake" gui.

    CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug|Release
      Build with debugging symbols or with optimisations.

    CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>   (defaults to /usr/local)
      Path in which to install Python.

    BUILD_SHARED=ON|OFF          (defaults to OFF)
    BUILD_STATIC=ON|OFF          (defaults to ON)
      Build libpython as a shared library (.so or .dll) or a static library
      (.a).  At least one of these options must be set to ON - if they are both
      set to ON then the Python executable will be linked against the shared
      version of libpython.

      Note that Python extensions are always built as shared libraries.  On
      Windows it is not possible to build shared .dll extensions against a
      static libpython, so you must build any extensions you want into libpython
      itself (see the BUILTIN flags below).

    ENABLE_<extension>=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
    BUILTIN_<extension>=ON|OFF    (defaults to OFF except for POSIX, PWD and
                                   NT extensions which are builtin by default)
      These two options control how individual python extensions are built.
      <extension> is the name of the extension in upper case, and without any
      leading underscore (_).  Known extensions for 2.7.1 include:

        ARRAY AUDIOOP BINASCII BISECT BSDDB BZ2 CMATH CODECS_CN CODECS_HK
        CODECS_ISO2022 CODECS_JP CODECS_KR CODECS_TW COLLECTIONS CPICKLE CRYPT
        CSTRINGIO CSV CTYPES CTYPES_TEST CURSES CURSES_PANEL DATETIME DBM
        ELEMENTTREE FCNTL FUNCTOOLS FUTURE_BUILTINS GDBM GRP HASHLIB HEAPQ
        HOTSHOT IO ITERTOOLS JSON LINUXAUDIODEV LOCALE LSPROF MATH MMAP
        MULTIBYTECODEC MULTIPROCESSING NIS NT OPERATOR OSSAUDIODEV PARSER POSIX
        PWD PYEXPAT RANDOM READLINE RESOURCE SELECT SOCKET SPWD SQLITE3 SSL
        STROP STRUCT SYSLOG TERMIOS TESTCAPI TIME TKINTER UNICODEDATA ZLIB

      All extensions are enabled by default, but some might depend on system
      libraries and will get disabled if they're not available (a list of
      extensions that didn't have all their prerequisites available will be
      printed when you run cmake).

      By default extensions are compiled as separate shared libraries (.so or
      .dll files) and installed in lib/python2.7/lib-dynload.  If you set
      BUILTIN_<extension> to ON then the extension is compiled into libpython
      instead.

    USE_LIB64=ON|OFF              (defaults to OFF)
      If this is set to ON then cmake will look for dependencies in lib64 as
      well as lib directories.  Compiled python extensions will also be
      installed into lib64/python2.7/lib-dynload instead of
      lib/python2.7/lib-dynload.

    EXTRA_PYTHONPATH=dir1:dir2    (defaults to "")
      Colon (:) separated list of extra directories to add to the compiled-in
      PYTHONPATH.

    USE_SYSTEM_LIBRARIES=ON|OFF   (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect system libraries will be done.
      Options documented below allow to enable/disable detection of particular
      libraries.

    USE_SYSTEM_Curses=ON|OFF      (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Curses libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: CURSES, CURSES_PANEL, READLINE
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: CURSES_LIBRARIES

    USE_SYSTEM_EXPAT=ON|OFF       (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Expat libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: ELEMENTTREE, PYEXPAT
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: EXPAT_LIBRARIES, EXPAT_INCLUDE_DIRS

    USE_SYSTEM_OpenSSL=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect OpenSSL libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: HASHLIB, SSL, MD5, SHA, SHA256, SHA512
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES
      If [OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES] are found, extensions [HASHLIB, SSL] will be built
      If [OPENSSL_INCLUDE_DIR, OPENSSL_LIBRARIES] are NOT found, extensions [SHA, SHA256, SHA512] will be built

    USE_SYSTEM_TCL=ON|OFF         (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Tcl libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: TKINTER
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: TCL_LIBRARY, TK_LIBRARY, TCL_INCLUDE_PATH, TK_INCLUDE_PATH

    USE_SYSTEM_ZLIB=ON|OFF        (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect ZLIB libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: BINASCII, ZLIB
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: ZLIB_LIBRARY, ZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR, ZLIB_ROOT
      ZLIB_ROOT should be set only if USE_SYSTEM_ZLIB is ON
      If [ZLIB_LIBRARY, ZLIB_INCLUDE_DIR] are found, extensions [BINASCII] will be built with ZLIB_CRC32

    USE_SYSTEM_DB=ON|OFF          (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect DB libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: BSDDB
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: DB_INCLUDE_PATH, DB_LIBRARIES

    USE_SYSTEM_GDBM=ON|OFF        (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect GDBM libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: DBM, GDBM
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: GDBM_INCLUDE_PATH, GDBM_LIBRARY, GDBM_COMPAT_LIBRARY

    USE_SYSTEM_READLINE=ON|OFF    (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect Readline libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: READLINE
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: READLINE_INCLUDE_PATH, READLINE_LIBRARY

    USE_SYSTEM_SQLITE3=ON|OFF     (defaults to ON)
      If set to OFF, no attempt to detect SQLITE3 libraries will be done.
      Associated python extensions are: SQLITE3
      Following CMake variables can manually be set: SQLITE3_INCLUDE_PATH, SQLITE3_LIBRARY

Cross-compiling for Windows from Linux:

  There are some patches in the cmake/patches-win32 directory that make it
  possible to compile Python using the mingw32 compiler.  You have to apply
  these before running make:

    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/01-dynload_win.patch
    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/02-signalmodule.patch
    * patch -p0 < cmake/patches-win32/03-mingw32.patch
